# @webdoc/cli

The CLI for [webdoc](https://github.com/webdoc-labs/webdoc/).

## Installation :package:

This package shouldn't be a production dependency for most end-users.

```bash
npm install --save-dev @webdoc/cli
```

## Usage :newspaper_roll:

### Command-line arguments

* `--site-domain <path>`: (optional) The domain of the website where you'll publish the documentation is used to
generate the `sitemap.xml`. This is useful if you want to integrate with [Algolia and use its crawler](https://www.algolia.com/products/crawler/). You must include the protocol for this to work currently, e.g. `http://pixijs.webdoclabs.com`.
* `--site-root <path>`: If using absolute links in a template, this will set the basepath. The basepath should the directory in which the documentation is being stored relative to where the server is running. The site root is "/" by default - which means that you'll need to serve the documentation directory as top-level. Note that @webdoc/default-template uses absolute links.
* `-c <config-path>`: This sets the path of the configuration file webdoc uses.
* `-u <tutorials-directory>` -  (optional) This should point to a directory containing tutorials written in Markdown (".md") or HTML ".html, ".htm". JSON files can be used to configure the hierarchy and naming of tutorials (see the Tutorial Configuration section).

### Configuration

The default path of the configuration file is `webdoc.conf.json` in the working directory. You can pass a custom path using the `-c <config-path>` argument.

#### source

The `source` defines which source files webdoc will process to generate the documentation.

```json
{
  "source": {
    "include": ["src/"],
    "includePattern": ["\\.ts$"],
    "excludePattern": ["(node_modules|lib|test|__test__)"],
    "exclude": ["src/__init.js"]
  }
}
```
* `source.include`: A string or array of strings with the paths containing the source files.
* `source.includePattern`: An optional regex or array of regexs that all source paths must conform to, if present.
* `source.excludePattern`: An optional regex or array of regexs used to filter out source path. No source file will match any of the exclude patterns.
* `source.exclude`: A string or array of strings containing specific paths to be excluded.

webdoc determines the list of source files as follows:
1. All paths in `source.include` and their subdirectories are added.
2. Paths matching atleast one `source.includePattern` are kept (skipped if no include pattern is provided).
3. Paths matching atleast one `source.excludePattern` are filtered out.
4. All paths that equal or are inside a path in `source.exclude` are filtered out.

#### docs

The `docs` object has options to configure the generation of the document tree.

```json
{
  "docs": {
    "sort": ["type", "scope", "access", "name"]
  }
}
```

* `docs.sort`: The characteristics of documented symbols which are used for sorting them, in order of decreasing priority. The valid values are:
  * `"type"`: Order by type as follows: namespaces, classes, enumerations, type definitions, properties, methods, events.
  * `"scope"`: Order by scope as follows: static, instance, inner.
  * `"access"`: Order by access as follows: public, protected, private.
  * `"name"`: Order alphabetically by the simple-name.

### opts

The `opts` object has additional CLI options.

```json
{
  "opts": {
    "destination": "docs",
    "export": "api.json",
    "template": "@webdoc/default-template"
  }
}
```

* `opts.destination`: (optional) The destination path for the generated documentation files.
* `opts.export`: (optional) The file where the API schema is exported.
* `opts.template`: (optional) The template package to use. This defaults to "@webdoc/default-template".

#### template

The `template` object is used by the site template.

```json
{
  "template": {
    "applicationName": "{ <i>webdoc</i> }",
    "routes": {
      "tutorials": "/faq"
    },
    "meta": {
      "og:title": "webdoc",
      "og:description": "webdoc API documentation",
      "og:image": "https://camo.githubusercontent.com/1427d2fdabd8790c93ca05cbfb653e2c6a8ab5694e671a04aa3af3fcef313539/68747470733a2f2f692e6962622e636f2f5a4850395044382f4c6f676f2d4672616d652d352e706e67",
      "og:url": "{{url}}",
      "og:site_name": "webdoclabs.com"
    },
    "repository": "http://github.com/webdoc-labs/webdoc",
    "integrations": {
      "search": {
        "provider": "algolia",
        "apiKey": "kadlfj232983lkqwem",
        "indexName": "webdoc-example",
        "appId": "349o39841;akdsfu"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

* `template.applicationName`: The name of the documented software. This is usually used to fill the app bar and tab title.
* `template.routes`: This can be used to override specific routes generated by the template. For example, you can move the
  `tutorials` to be outputted at "/faq" instead of "/tutorials", if desired.
* `template.meta`: (optional) This can be used to define the `<meta>` key-value tags. The `{{url}}` variable can be used
  to put in the site URL for each page (you have to provide the `siteDomain` and `siteRoot`).
* `template.repository`: (optional) This can be used to link documents to their location in the source code. The only supported repository is GitHub.
* `template.integrations`: (optional) Integrations with 3rd party solutions in your template. This object is dependent on which template you're using. For @webdoc/default-template, the following integrations are available:
  * `search`: This is used as the backend for the global site search. You'll need to create an Algolia account yourself and provide
    the `apiKey`, `appId`, `indexName`. (The only supported provider is "algolia" right now)

### Tutorial configuration

Tutorials can be structured in a hierarchy using JSON files in the tutorials directory. If you have multiple JSON configuration, they
are deep-merged before being processed.

#### Per-tutorial configuration

Tutorials are referenced using their file name - so make sure all file names in the tutorial directory are unique. To configure a specific
tutorial file, any configuration should reference it by the file name (excluding the extension). For example, to configure "hello-world.md":

```json
{
  "hello-world": {
    "title": "Hello world! by webdoc"
  }
}
```

* `title` - This is what the navigation sidebar will list the tutorial as.

#### Defining a hierarchy

You can also define children in tutorial configurators inline:

```json
{
  "hello-world": {
    "title": "Hello world! by webdoc",
    "children": {
      "chapter-1": {
        "title": "Chapter 1"
      },
      "chapter-2": {
        "title": "Chapter 2"
      }
    }
  },
  "next-steps": {
    "title": "Next-steps"
  }
}
```

In this configuration, "Chapter 1" and "Chapter 2" will be items under the "Hello world!" category.

#### Referencing other tutorials

Instead of defining tutorials inline in the `children` object, you can add them to the root and then reference
them by name in a `children` array.

```json
{
  "hello-world": {
    "title": "Hello world! by webdoc",
    "children": [
      "chapter-1",
      "chapter-2"
    ]
  },
  "chapter-1": {
    "title": "Chapter 1"
  },
  "chapter-2": {
    "title": "Chapter 2"
  },
  "next-steps": {
    "title": "Next-steps"
  }
}
```

The above configuration is equivalent to the one defining "Chapter 1" and "Chapter 2" children inline "Hello world!". This way,
you can also split the configuration into multiple files:

**main.json**

```json
{
  "hello-world": {
    "title": "Hello world! by webdoc",
    "children": [
      "chapter-1",
      "chapter-2"
    ]
  },
  "next-steps": {
    "title": "Next-steps"
  }
}
```

**chapters.json**

```json
{
  "chapter-1": {
    "title": "Chapter 1"
  },
  "chapter-2": {
    "title": "Chapter 2"
  }
}
```